# BIT Tokenomics


## **Emission rate** <a href="#emission-rate" id="emission-rate"></a>

### **Per block**

| **Metric**                                                                | **Emission/block (BIT)** | **Emission/day (BIT)** |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------: | ----------------------: |
| Emission                                                                  |                        40 |               1,152,000 |
| Burned Weekly [(PID 138)](bit-tokenomics.md#why-is-the-bit-burn-manual) |                    -25.75 |                -787,600 |
| **Effective Emission**                                                    |              **<14.25\*** |           **364,400\*** |

\*Effective Emission is in fact slightly below this amount: an additional 45,000 BIT per day is diverted from the amount allocated to the lottery, and burned (PID 137 - Details below).

In addition to the above, a dynamic amount of BIT is also [minted to the Dev address](https://bscscan.com/address/0xceba60280fb0ecd9a5a26a1552b90944770a4a0e#tokentxns) at a rate of 9.09%. This means that if 100 BIT are harvested, then 9.09 BIT is minted in addition and sent to the Dev Address.

{% hint style="info" %}
All BIT minted to the Dev address is burned in the weekly burn and never enters circulation.&#x20;

As such, we haven't included it in the above emission rate.
{% endhint %}

## Distribution <a href="#distribution" id="distribution"></a>

| Distributed to                | Reward/block (% of emission) | Reward/block (total BIT) |           Reward/day |
| ----------------------------- | ---------------------------: | ------------------------: | -------------------: |
| Farms and Lottery             |                       10.62% |                      4.25 |     122,400 (approx) |
| of which diverted and burned  |                              |                           |              -46,000 |
| Syrup Pools                   |                          25% |                        10 |     288,000 (approx) |
| **Total Daily BIT Emission** |                              |                           | **364,400 (approx)** |

## **Other Deflationary Mechanics** <a href="#other-deflationary-mechanics" id="other-deflationary-mechanics"></a>

{% hint style="info" %}
The burning process is currently manual. [View burn transactions here](https://bscscan.com/token/0xd96bBEb6f32fE6C0BB11D6D33f7a5D1e6f7961BA).
{% endhint %}

As well as the above, BIT is also burned in the following ways:

* **0.05%** of every trade made on Bitexblock V2
* **100%** of BIT sent to the Dev address
* **100%** of BIT performance fees from IFOs
* **100%** of BIT spent on Profile Creation and NFT minting
* **100%** of BIT bid during Farm Auctions
* **20%** of BIT spent on lottery tickets
* **45,000** BIT per day (historically assigned to the lottery) (_The BIT for this is generated by a farm - PID 137)_
* **3%** of every Prediction markets round is used to buy BIT for burning
* **2%** of every yield harvest in the Auto BIT Pool
* **2%** of every NFT sale on the NFT Market is used to buy BIT for burning

## Why is the BIT burn manual?

To hit the ground running, Bitexblock launched as an MVP (minimum viable product) with the MasterChef contract emitting 40 BIT per block. For that reason, the early team didn't add additional functions such as the ability to customize the BIT minting logic. As migrating to a new MasterChef would require a lot of time and effort, the team opted to reduce BIT emissions instead through a manual burn process by creating two pools:

* Legacy Lottery Pool (PID - 137) - burned BIT from the lottery
* Burn Pool (PID - 138) - burned BIT per block

These pools work similarly to the farms, where the Chefs can adjust the percentage of the 40 BIT per block allocated to it after each BIT emission reduction vote.

{% hint style="warning" %}
On the day of the burn, the supply shown on the homepage might suddenly jump by several million BIT.&#x20;

Don't worry - **THIS BIT NEVER ACTUALLY ENTERS CIRCULATION:**
{% endhint %}

This apparent jump is just because of how all the BIT that's allocated for the burn is stored during the week.&#x20;

The BIT sent to both pools PID-137 and PID-138 are harvested before completing the weekly token burns, and this makes the Total Supply shown on the site jumping by \~6M. This is because pending BIT isn’t registered in the Total Supply until it's harvested on the burn day. Once the token burn transaction is completed, the \~6M is shown in the Burned to Date.&#x20;

## How to Confirm BIT Supply for yourself

To confirm that the circulating BIT supply shown on the Bitexblock homepage is correct,&#x20;

1. Head to the BIT token contract on BscScan and [see how much BIT is held by the Burn Address.](https://bscscan.com/token/0xd96bBEb6f32fE6C0BB11D6D33f7a5D1e6f7961BA#balances) That's the total amount of BIT that's been burned (removed from circulation FOREVER, and impossible to ever retrieve).
2. Then, subtract this burned amount from the "Total Supply" that BscScan shows.
3. This gives you the actual BIT supply.



#### **Read more about BIT's deflationary mechanics on the next page.** <a href="#read-more-about-bits-deflationary-mechanics-on-the-next-page" id="read-more-about-bits-deflationary-mechanics-on-the-next-page"></a>
